>> Josh Long: We have a sample application
that we built in the intro and
that sample application,
I showed you both how to run it.
I ran it from within the IDE.
I right clicked on it and
I chose debug or run or whatever.
And that'll run in your local IDE.
I've got the port being blocked.
Let me shut down that.
Where is actually that
port over here surely.
Yeah, so
I can run in the IDE like that, right?
And make sure that when you're running it,
make sure you have the green spring leaf,
not the regular Java one.
This is just a regular Java process.
IntelliJ has some badging.
It's like a facet or whatever.
It'll detect that you're
using a spring app and
it'll run things a little
bit more quickly that way.
Okay, so that's on the IDE.
But if I just want to
test on the command line,
if want to like know for
sure it's working, go to your code and
CD service and
I'm going to do maven spring boot run.
Let me stop this over here.
And then that'll run it on the JRE on
your local machine, as you'd expect.
Now that's on the jre,
I've got this JVM application.
It's on the JRE like I said.
And I showed you this,
the self contained jar.
But that still requires a jvm, right?
So DU minus HS service blah jar.
This is not what you would normally
get if you compiled the jar.
Because we only wrote like
10 lines of code, right?
It's whatever.
The source code that we contributed to
the project was not even a kilobyte,
basically.
And yet this jar is 27 megs.
And that's because it contains everything
you need to run the program, except for
the JRE itself.
Then I turned it into a native image and
then it contained everything
it needed to run the program.
Including the jre, right?
Including the runtime
in that native binary.
And that native binary was a full 75,
no, 90 megs.
So yeah, quite a bit bigger, right?
63 megs bigger than without.
So that 63 megs will be the JRE that
gets packaged in the native binary.
That native binary is macOS specific.
It does not run,
it's not write once run anywhere.
It only works on Mac and when you compile
it on Windows you get service exe and
guess what?
It'll only run on Windows.
When you compile it on Linux, guess what?
It'll run on Linux.
One of the things that's really nice
about that is that you can also build
a Docker image out of this project.
So Maven Spring Boot build image.
So I'm going to run that and
then let it do its thing in
the background behind the scenes.
That's going to use buildpacks and
buildpacks will actually
dockerize my image for me.
Buildpacks are.
There you go.
Buildpacks are a technology that was
originally created by the folks at Heroku.
Have you heard of Heroku?
It's a platform as a service.
They created it back in 2008.
They made originally they were a platform
specifically for Ruby on Rails apps and
eventually they migrated towards sort
of cross language polyglot runtimes.
And to support that they needed a little
bit of indirection between the bit that
actually runs the program and
the bit that you upload.
So when you upload something to Heroku,
how do they then know to run it?
Well, they need to standardize.
They need to have a set of
standardized scripts that know how
to run a given source code repository,
right?
So if it's a Java workload versus a Ruby
on Rails workload versus a Python workload
versus a PHP versus whatever, they need to
have a standardized set of hooks to call.
So they created this buildpack concept.
I work at Broadcom, we have
a distribution called Cloud Foundry.
Cloud Foundry is.
We have a product called Tanzu Application
service based on something called
Cloud Foundry.
Cloud Foundry is an open source
platform platform as a service,
very much in the style and
the spirit of Heroku.
And because that was a good idea,
these buildpacks are such a good idea,
we pulled these things in,
we pulled in buildpacks as well.
And so buildpacks are actually something
that we both separately innovated on.
And then eventually for version 3.0 of
the technology, we worked together.
So we actually released
version three of BuildPacks.
And you can actually find
information about BuildPacks here.
BuildPacks IO, Cloud Native BuildPacks.
And these are basically
container first recipes for
turning an arbitrary workload,
be it a Java application or
Python or NET or COBOL or
Next JS or whatever.
And turning it into a container
that you can then run.
If you're using that, you can use it.
There's a pack CLI that you can use.
But I just did this.
I used the spring boot plugin,
spring boot build image and
I got this Docker image here.
So I can do Docker run and
there's the application.
So I've already Got the port.
I don't have the right.
It's not going to connect to postgres
because it's inside of local host in
my Docker image is not the same
as my Mac OS Hosting port.
So minus e spring data source
URL equals jdbc PostgreSQL local.
Sorry, it's what is it?
A host.docker.Internet my database,
I think, 8080: 8080.
Is that the right port?
Looks like it.
Okay, so
now if I go to localhost customers.
Yeah, there you go.
So I ran this Docker image, this Docker
image I generated from buildpacks.
Did you all see that?
I used spring boot build image.
It built a Docker image for
me out of my application.
I then ran it on my local machine and I
had to override the environment variable,
the property spring data source URL.
I overrode it by pointing it to
host.docker.Internet which is the host of
my Mac relative to the container
running on my Mac,
which is running inside
of a virtual machine.
Okay, so that should be very easy.
Getting a dockerized image out of your
source code should not be a thing.
This should not be a problem.
If you spend more than one second trying
to make that work, you spend too long.
It's built in your production
worthy out of the box, so
you can focus on other things.
You can also build a native image.
So I go over here, let's see.
Do that again.
Remember, I built a native image on
the local Mac, but if you want this Docker
image to have that native image,
then you have to enable this so P native.
And that will take a fair bit longer.
But what that's going to do is it's
going to compile in my Docker image.
It's going to compile the native image and
then package that native Linux binary in
the Docker image,
even though I'm running on a Mac.
So it's going to do the compilation in
the Docker virtual machine on Linux.
So then the resulting binary
will be Linux as well.
So now I'll have something I can
deploy to any container registry, and
it'll run anywhere that Linux is.
It will work.
So this will take a fair bit longer.
Remember that native
image compilation takes
a lot longer than just regular JVM runs.
Okay, so
that Docker image is built, right?
That took a minute, a whole minute to
build a Docker image that has native
code inside of it though, right?
So if I run this Docker run that starts
up Same issue as before, though.
So here we go.
That starts up in 75 milliseconds.
So keep in mind what just happened.
I built a native image inside of
a Docker image, ran it on my Mac.
Remember, behind the scenes, Docker is
using virtualization to simulate Linux and
then inside Linux, I did the compilation.
And then I'm inside that Linux emulation,
I'm running Java,
I'm running the native binary.
The native binary inside of Linux on
my Mac start up in 75 milliseconds,
whereas the native binary on my
Mac directly started up in point.
What was it, 9 or something like that?
0.8.
It's actually faster.
The Linux compilation.
The native image compilation you get
on Linux is actually amazingly fast.
It's much faster than the native
one on Mac OS for me at least.
So you might be surprised to actually
have better performance on Linux,
even though you've presumably got a much
better laptop than you do in production.
Your machine's low, your machine for
your desktop is better.
Okay, so that's how to get.
That's how to get.
I want you to know, graalvm, Docker,
these two things, they are your tools for
building and
producing images that go to production.
When I say Docker, one of the things that
people always ask about is, how do I build
applications and support that git clone
run life if I need a postgres or whatever?
Well, you saw me do it earlier,
you saw me go to start Spring IO and
I can choose Docker Compose support.
There's another thing I can choose,
which is test containers support.
So I'm going to add postgres here again.
So this is, I'm going to close
the old example down here.
This is not running anymore.
Closing that and we're going to hit
Enter CD Downloads UAO demo.
Okay, so you can see what has happened
is that the Spring initializer
generated this Docker compose file for
postgres and it'll do that for
a lot of things if you do MySQL
let's see if it does that.
If I go, by the way,
control space on Start Spring IO lets you
explore the files that will get generated.
So there you go.
You can see, actually there's Postgres and
MySQL at the top.
What about Neo4j?
Or what about MongoDB?
If I go over here, there's MongoDB,
Atlas, the Vector Store,
there's MySQL there's Neo4j,
what about Redis?
Go over here again and there's Redis.
So you can see it's pretty
helpful if you really want to.
If you like Cert Spring, that is not just
a great way to build a new Spring project.
It can be a really great way
to get some test images for
all these different data stores you
might want to use up and running.
So I went to Start Spring IO.
I had chose control space.
I can explore, compose YAML,
I can copy and paste that.
I'm adding infrastructure to my build and
it's automatically giving me these Docker
containers that I can run
to start up a test local.
MongoDB, MySQL, Neo4j,
Postgres, Redis, etc.
I did that over here in my brand
new project Start Spring IO.
And when I did that,
it added some dependencies to the build.
Docker Compose, right?
It also added test containers.
So these two things are very important
when we start the Spring boot application.
When I start the Spring boot application
with the Docker Compose support,
remember in this Docker compose file,
I have not exposed,
I have not exported the port, right.
The port is just local.
But I've got a Docker image here for
postgres.
Okay, so let's go back to this.
I'll say Docker PS minus a Docker RM F and
then take that Docker ps.
There's no Docker images running here.
So now I'm going to run
this application and
remember how quickly these
things start up normally.
But I've left this
Docker Compose support here.
Docker Compose.
Okay, that's there.
Let's run this application.
No changes to the code whatsoever.
You can see it took forever to start up
because it actually started up the Docker
file for me.
But the result is that that
took almost twice as long,
four times as long as it would
normally to start it up.
This is quite convenient because
now during my development time,
if I go over here, Docker ps,
you can see I've got Postgres running.
My applications are already
connected to it.